In your quest for sports greatness, you come across a really big sports article about sports! You want to navigate to only the important bits, which happen to be pointers to other parts of the article. (You've always wanted to join the city's Major League File Navigation team, the Pittsburgh Boviks.)
Start by jumping to the end of this file, where you'll find another clue!
---
If ever there was a week to tip your cap to the Pittsburgh Pirates, this is it. The franchise, moribund for 20 long years, hung on to beat the Brewers in Milwaukee on Tuesday, meaning that their two-decade long streak of losing seasons is finally history. Considering the incredible brand of baseball being played at PNC Park this season, such a feat may seem like small potatoes. However, when you consider that legions of Pirates fans have grown up knowing a team that never eclipsed the .500 mark, well, you begin to understand why many living around the Monongahela River have cause to celebrate. Patrick Conway was just nine when the Pirates won the last of three consecutive National League Eastern Division titles.
I honestly don't remember 1992, it's essentially the first time in my life that my favorite team in my favorite sport has played .500 ball. It's pathetic, but exciting as all hell. I guess it was worth all the awful games and players I've watched.
For the most part, players don't generally get caught up in the trials and tribulations of the failures of their predecessors - professional athletes raising their glasses to not being losers isn't in their DNA - musing about curses and streaks is almost always the job of fans. Neil Walker is a notable exception to the rule - the Pirates second baseman, whose father also played with Pittsburgh, alongside icon and hall-of-famer Roberto Clemente, was born in the Steel City and attended high school and quarterbacked the football team just 17 miles away in Gibsonia, PA.
I think that if we were any other organization, you probably wouldn't [care] and the question probably wouldn't even be asked. The fact that 82 wins is such a big number in this city because of obvious reasons, it holds a lot more weight…If you're asking me, as a fan, as a growing-up fan that number has some significance, yes. To the other 24 guys, I don't think it holds that much weight.
That's true, just ask possible NL MVP candidate Andrew McCutchen, who also told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that getting caught up in such trivial matters can only serve as a distraction.
You're putting pressure on yourself when you do that. Thinking about playoffs, wild cards, teams winning and losing. You're putting added pressure on yourself that you don't need to put on yourself. You can't control what other teams do.
That is more of your standard player response, which is why Walker, who is in a perfect position to provide a rare fan perspective coming from an actual player, is adored in his home town. Most of the organization declined to treat a non-losing season as anything of any consequence, which is completely logical if not just a touch soulless. After all, wouldn't fans prefer to look back at 2013 as the year they won a World Series title for the first time since 1979? Or their first winning season since 1992? The answer is obvious, hence the champagne being kept in check until a playoff berth is wrapped up, which is only a matter of time.
Whatever happens with the rest of this season, no one will accuse GM Neal Huntington of not going for it all. After bringing in outfielder Marlon Byrd and catcher John Buck from the Mets, Huntington acquired Justin Morneau, who won the 2006 MVP Award, from the Twins, and so the Buccos are well stocked to take on a very competitive National League playoff group in a bid to make their season about much more than achieving mediocrity.
Boston Red Sox closer Koji Uehara is not allowing even a shred of hope for his opponents.
With at least two would-be closers ahead of him when the season began in April, Koji Uehara couldn't have possibly imagined himself being in the position he's in today - finishing off opponents in save situations for the Boston Red Sox. What's even more surprising than his actually being the closer for a team on the verge of going worst to first in the American League East is the way he's going about his business. Uehara, who signed with Boston as a free agent in the offseason, is completely dominating opponents, and that's a grave understatement. He has thrown 29.1 consecutive scoreless innings over the course of 27 games and allowed, wait for it, 10 base runners during that streak. That is a silly number, but not as silly as this one - over his previous 10 appearances, opponents are hitting .088 against him, and that's not their batting average, it's their OPS. Over his previous 7.1 innings, he's allowed no hits or walks or hit batsman. Pick your jaw up yet?
Uehara, a hurler who has enjoyed an excellent professional career on two continents, is no stranger to the closing games. A successful starter for the Yomiuri Giants, he transitioned to being a reliever in 2007 and tallied 33 saves. In 2009 he left Japan for Baltimore - a season later he saved 12 games for the Orioles. Despite Uehara being a well above average reliever since arriving in MLB, one that was traded by the O's to Texas for Chris Davis and Tommy Hunter in 2011, few could have foreseen the Japanese righty playing on such an elite level, and doing so at the tender age of 38. Then again, few could have envisioned the Red Sox heading back to the playoffs after a three year hiatus, a goal well within reach, 6.5 games ahead of the Rays in the AL East. A season after everything that could have possibly gone wrong, Boston is doing everything right, with Uehara right in the middle of that success.
Who can take their eyes off Yasiel Puig and his Los Angeles Dodgers?
The National League may boast several compelling teams, but its stretch run is anything but, with five ballclubs comfortably set in the five available playoff spots with little competition coming from elsewhere. The Atlanta Braves and their bullet-proof bullpen have the best record in all of baseball, the St Louis Cardinals are a juggernaut, the Los Angeles Dodgers are probably the most watchable franchise in baseball this season, the trend bucking Pirates have made new fans, and the Cincinnati Reds are something of an underdog despite their well rounded club. So, I ask, where is the drama? Where is the phrenetic race to the end? For that, you have no choice but to look to the American League. Baseball neutrals have loved watching the Pirates this season, but their battle for top seed in the central division with the Reds and Cards is anything but must see TV. Meanwhile, the Braves have had the East in their grasp for what seems like forever, and the Dodgers broke away in the west during their epic 42-8 run.
Even if we were still operating under the old postseason system that ended after the 2011 season, that's four teams making it to the playoffs, we would be left with three central division teams trying to squeeze into two spots - hardly show stopping stuff. This kind of dud of a pennant race happens from time to time, but it's worth noting that in 2011 we thought we were going to have a bore of a September, but instead, we wound up with what could have been the most dramatic conclusion to a regular season in the history of baseball. So yes, there is hope for some kind of miraculous finale, with the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Washington Nationals (and their lazy phenom Bryce Harper) potentially moving into the postseason picture. However, unless those teams start winning every day, which is what would-be playoff teams do this time of year, we'll have to wait for the postseason for any NL theatrics.
The same can't be said for the American League, where that fifth available playoff slot has created a log jam of teams vying to reach the postseason. No fewer than six teams are competing for two spots in the 2013 AL playoffs, including the Tampa Bay Rays, New York Yankees, Baltimore Orioles, Cleveland Indians and the Kansas City Royals. The loser in the AL West dual between the Texas Rangers and the Oakland Athletics, currently tied for first place for the division, would be in a strong position to reach the postseason - they co-hold a healthy four game lead on the first wild card spot.
Alex Rodriguez thinks it's time to stop counting out the New York Yankees.
Thanks to the Rays' ill-timed slump, the race for that second wildcard spot has gotten a whole lot more interesting and brought scoreboard watching to a level that the NL can only dream about. Back on August 24th Tampa were sitting pretty in a first-place tie with the Boston Red Sox in the AL East, while holding a healthy five game cushion in the wildcard standings. Since then, they've suffered through a stretch of eight losses in ten games and are now holding on to a 2.5 game lead on the second wildcard spot.
Whether or not the Mariano Rivera farewell tour will end with his Yankees in the playoffs will have a lot to do with their next 11 games - seven with Boston separated by three games in Baltimore. Energized by Alfonso Soriano, who has helped reenergize the suddenly healthy Yankees lineup, New York need to get some decent starting pitching to have a shot at overcoming Tampa Bay. That's no easy task considering the Bombers were just forced to drop fifth starter, Phil Hughes, from the rotation, although the slumping CC Sabathia did provide a quality start in a 6-5 Yankees win over Chicago on Wednesday.
With Cleveland, Texas, and Detroit on a tough upcoming schedule, you can all but count out the pretending Royals.
Cleveland, also in the dumps lately won't be helped by an oblique strain that will prevent Justin Masterson from missing at least one start - I'd put them on the second tier of hopefuls, ahead of KC and in Baltimore's neighborhood. The Orioles, who acquired Mike Morse from Seattle to land some more right handed power when their real need is pitching - not that any difference makers were available. Expect a New York/Tampa fight to the finish, one that could end in a one game death match for the right to play in the one-game wildcard death match. The play-in game would be on Monday September 30th if necessary. Almost done- go to the start of the article and replace "the Pittsburgh Pirates" with "me" to show how good you are at sports!
Former Major League player and current MLB Network broadcaster Eric Byrnes revealed on Tuesday that he has direct knowledge of a Hall-of-Famer who has used steroids. Writing on his on blog, Byrnes said:
Disturbingly, not long ago I was having dinner with a former long time Major League player that spoke about the steroid use of a prominent Hall of Famer that played the majority of his career in the 70′s and 80′s… Ha! Not like I was shocked but damn… So many members of the Hall of Fame, including this character, have recently spoken out and condemned guys who have had ties to performance enhancing drugs, saying there is no place for "cheaters" in the HOF… I just wonder how many of the other guys in the "Hall" were actually cheaters themselves?
Maybe I'm a bit burned out by performance-enhancing drugs stories but this one is particularly annoying due to the fact that Byrnes fails to reveal who the player is. What is the point of his saying he knows who took the drugs? If he's going to bring that up, spill the goods, otherwise Byrnes looks like he's just looking for attention, which he is getting right here, right now, not to mention on dozens of other sites. Even if Byrnes did reveal just which HOF player used, it would likely come without any evidence, possibly leading to messy legal proceedings where no one looks good. That is why it's probably best to keep such information to oneself.
It's worth mentioning that aside from the unnecessary semi-revelation, Byrnes' piece is insightful, and brings up several good points that deserve a read.
It's been 18 years since Andy Van Slyke chased down fly balls in the gap with the blend of instincts, speed and grace that earned him five career Gold Glove Awards. When Van Slyke isn't sharing opinions as a celebrity guest on St. Louis sports talk radio and keeping tabs on his son Scott, an outfielder with the Los Angeles Dodgers, he routinely encounters longtime Pittsburgh Pirates fans who come up and thank him for the memories.
"As a player, you don't realize how much of an impact you have on the culture in a city until you get away from it," Van Slyke said by phone. "Twenty years later, people tell stories about how they stayed at a rain-delay game for 2½ hours and you got a hit and sent them home happy, and they had to drive six hours and get up early for work on Monday. A girl in St. Louis told me she still has one of my old T-shirts from a Pirates team giveaway in her wardrobe. She doesn't wear it, but she still has it as a token of a memory."
This is the type of thrill that Jermaine Allensworth, Rob Mackowiak, Lastings Milledge and other Pirates of a recent (and sadder) vintage have not had the pleasure of experiencing.
The Pirates are about to dump a 20-year emotional anchor into the Allegheny River when they win their 81st game and break the longest streak of sub-.500 seasons by any team in North American professional sports history. Manager Clint Hurdle and his players are hosting a jubilee for Pirates fans who need to go back to the Willie Stargell-led "We Are Family" days -- and Roberto Clemente and Bill Mazeroski before that -- for true fulfillment and sustenance.
Andrew McCutchen and his teammates are also rekindling some pleasant memories for members for the 1992 Pittsburgh club, who are thrilled to relinquish the honor of being the last Pirates team not to be a drag on civic pride.
In the summer of '92, Pittsburgh was one of Major League Baseball's marquee franchises. The Pirates had a gruff, plain-spoken manager in Jim Leyland, a superstar left fielder in Barry Bonds and one of baseball's best starting pitchers in Doug Drabek. They survived the departure of star outfielder Bobby Bonilla to the New York Mets through free agency and posted a 96-66 record to win the National League East title by nine games over Montreal before falling a game short of the pennant against Atlanta.
Barry Bonds hit 34 homers and stole 39 bases, helping the Pirates reach the playoffs, on the way to becoming the 1992 NL MVP.
The Pittsburgh players -- and the fans -- had no clue about the stunning array of mishaps, embarrassments and other indignities that would ensue over the next two decades.
But they did know that you should jump ahead 20 lines for the next instruction!
Bonds departed for San Francisco as a free agent and the Pirates dipped to 75 victories in 1993, and the hits just kept on coming. Who can forget Derek Bell declaring "Operation Shutdown" in 2002, or Randall Simon making news the following year for taking a bat to a racing sausage in Milwaukee?
The Pirates whiffed on four-year contracts for Kevin Young and Pat Meares, and wasted first-round draft picks on Bryan Bullington, John Van Benschoten and Daniel Moskos. Manager Lloyd McClendon made the highlights by yanking first base from its moorings and carrying it down the dugout steps, and general manager Dave Littlefield essentially gave away Aramis Ramirez and Kenny Lofton to the Chicago Cubs in a salary-dump trade mandated by ownership.
The Pirates moved from sterile Three Rivers Stadium to scenic PNC Park in 2001, yet the losing persisted. Jason Bay, Brian Giles and Jason Kendall made All-Star teams and Freddy Sanchez beat out Miguel Cabrera for the batting title in 2006, but those players all fell victim to the malady that pitcher Jason Schmidt once dubbed the "Bucco Malaise." The Pirates suffered an additional jolt when Jose Bautista, a former Pittsburgh farmhand, emerged as a 50-home run superstar in Toronto.
All things considered, Pittsburgh fans and the players have endured a walk in the baseball wilderness of Biblical proportions. "Pops" Stargell, who died the day PNC Park opened, was World Series MVP when the Pirates won their last title in 1979.
"Let's put it this way: The last time the guys on 'Duck Dynasty' shaved is when the Buccos won the pennant," Van Slyke said.
To put all that suffering in perspective, it's instructive to reflect on the nonbaseball sporting developments that have taken place in the Steel City since the Pirates last posted a winning record:
In 1992, first-year coach Bill Cowher led the Pittsburgh Steelers to an 11-5 record and a playoff berth. The Steelers have posted an aggregate record of 212-123 (for a winning percentage of .633), made the playoffs 14 times, won two Super Bowls and lost two others since the Pirates last broke the .500 barrier.
Mario Lemieux, Kevin Stevens and Tom Barrasso led the Pittsburgh Penguins to their second straight Stanley Cup championship in 1992. Lemieux survived Hodgkin's lymphoma, entered the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1997 and was part of a group that bought the team two years later. The Penguins have posted winning records in 16 of the past 20 seasons, and won another Stanley Cup behind phenom Sidney Crosby in 2009.
The Pitt Panthers have made 12 NCAA basketball tournament appearances since 1992. That includes five trips to the Sweet 16 and an Elite Eight appearance in 2009.
For those who prefer to mark their sports news through U.S. cultural signposts, "The Silence of the Lambs" was the big winner at the 1992 Academy Awards and Natalie Cole cleaned up at the Grammys. Some other 1992 news events: President George H.W. Bush took ill and vomited at a state dinner in Japan, Kurt Cobain married Courtney Love, Johnny Carson made his final "Tonight Show" appearance and gas cost $1.13 a gallon.
Reminiscing about the good old days is a labor of love for the old Pirates, many of whom are still in baseball in some capacity.
Leyland ranks 15th on the career managerial win list with 1,755 victories, and former catcher (and manager) McClendon and former coach Gene Lamont are part of his staff in Detroit. Dave Clark and Jay Bell are big league coaches, and Steve Buechele is a minor league manager with the Texas organization. Bob Walk and John Wehner, two other members of the '92 squad, are baseball broadcasters in Pittsburgh. A rookie pitcher named Miguel Batista made a two-inning cameo appearance for the Pirates in April of '92, and Kirk Gibson, now the Arizona Diamondbacks' manager, hit .196 in 16 games with Pittsburgh before being released that May.
Gary Varsho, a former backup outfielder and Leyland favorite, is now a scout with the Los Angeles Angels. He still remembers taking his post between innings at Three Rivers Stadium and seeing the same fan holding a sign with the inscription "Leyland's Bucs Play Hardball." The message resonated against its plain cardboard backdrop.
"I always took that sign personally," Varsho said. "We were proud to wear that uniform and win for that city. It's a different breed of cat in Pittsburgh. They expect hard-nosed players who play the game the right way. For them to go 21 years without winning -- that's tough."
The old Pirates were a talented group with a fun-loving attitude and camaraderie to spare. They gave players who made boneheaded plays a gold statuette known as the "Sammy Award," in honor of 1980s clubhouse favorite Sammy Khalifa. McClendon once received a Sammy Award this is actually an instruction; go to the end of line 23 for forgetting to leave tickets for his wife, and catcher Don Slaught snagged one for nearly batting out of turn. Leyland even captured a Sammy for being in the bathroom while Bonilla was nearly getting ejected in an argument with an umpire.
Andy Van Slyke, a fan favorite, hit .324 and won his fifth consecutive Gold Glove Award in 1992.
The entire Pittsburgh roster bonded through basketball. During the 1991 season, Van Slyke walked into the clubhouse one day with a tool belt and a saw and attached a small hoop to a pillar in the middle of the room, and the team's Around-The-World tournament was born. The Pirates used small rubber basketballs with Pizza Hut logos, and needed to keep spares handy because second baseman Jose Lind collected knives and liked to carve up balls that invaded his locker space.
Mike LaValliere, the squatty catcher from New Hampshire, beat Bonds, Bonilla and Van Slyke in the tournament before losing to outfielder Curtis Wilkerson in the finals. Randy Tomlin, a 5-foot-11, finesse lefty pitcher, won a second competition. It was a major understatement to say the tournaments were intense.
"They beat every Big Dance there ever was," said former Pirates coach Rich Donnelly, who is now a minor league manager in the Mets' organization. "Guys were so pissed off about losing in the Nerf tournament, they almost didn't want to go out and play a playoff game. I think Bonds lost to Van Slyke and didn't speak to him for the entire postseason."
Good job! Now go 5 lines up and 50 words ahead.
That wasn't unusual. Bonds once referred to Van Slyke as "The Great White Hope," and the dynamic between the two All-Stars was frosty at best.
"Those two never spoke to one another except when Andy said 'I got it' in the outfield," Donnelly said.
The demarcation line between success and torture became official when the Braves' Francisco Cabrera singled home Sid Bream at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in the deciding Game 7 of the 1992 National League Championship Series. When umpire Randy Marsh signaled Bream safe, it set off a region-wide depression in western Pennsylvania. Given the economics of the game, the Pirates knew they were going to be challenged in keeping the roster intact. When Bonds left to sign a record six-year, $43.75 million [≈ Electronics/communication industry 2011 political donations] deal with the Giants in December 1992, the slide unofficially began.
"Sid Bream slid, and the window slammed on our fingers," Van Slyke said. "There were babies born in Pittsburgh who went off to college and never saw their team win. In essence, they lost a generation of baseball fans."
Donnelly's son Bubba, a star basketball player at Robert Morris University in the early 1990s, took the loss particularly hard.
"I live in Ohio in the Tri-State area, and I know what it did to that city," Donnelly said. "It was like a death in the family. People had to get counseling. There were guys who had talk radio shows who couldn't even speak. We got on that plane home, and Andy Van Slyke called it 'the flight to nowhere.'
"Bubba cried so much that night, his eye got infected. He went to the eye doctor the next day, and while he was in the chair getting the eye exam talking about what happened, the doctor started crying. Then the nurses started crying too. It took the heart right out of everybody."
For a while, Pirates die-hards were hesitant to buy into the team's success this year for fear of having their hearts ripped out again. The Pirates enjoyed strong starts in 2011 and 2012 only to collapse in August and September, so the locals have reason to be dubious.
But the fans have gradually come around. Pittsburgh's average attendance of 26,787 is the team's largest since PNC Park's inception, and Hurdle regales reporters each day with tales of the warm receptions he gets during sojourns to the local Starbucks and Giant Eagle grocery store.
The Pirates, in the middle of a big series with St. Louis this weekend, have sputtered of late and are taking a bit longer than expected to reach 81-81 and make a .500 season official. But it's only a matter of time. Can they parlay the magic of this season into something more than a quick one-and-done in the NL wild-card play-in game? That's the next big question.
LaValliere, who lives in Bradenton, Fla., sensed the Pirates were ready to take a step forward when he spent nearly two months helping coach Jeff Banister work with the team's catchers in the Grapefruit League.
"At the end of spring training, they sent some major leaguers down to Triple-A," LaValliere said. "In years past, they had Triple-A guys playing in the big leagues. That was the tipoff to me that they had a solid team. They were so much deeper and had so many good arms, I'm not surprised about what's happened. Personally, I'm not looking for them to break any losing streak. I'm looking for more."
At the very least, the end of that humiliating 20-year futility streak will be cause for Pittsburgh baseball fans to crack open an ice-cold beverage and celebrate. As Donnelly points out, no team has ever won a World Series with a losing record.
"I've been a Pirates fan since I was 5 years old, and I know one thing," Donnelly said. "The day they go over .500 or win the pennant -- or both -- there's going to be a lot of Iron City flowing."
Nice one, sports fans! Now jump to line 36.
