Our coach just told us that we need to practice our sliding.
We aren't very good at sliding, so we're going to practice Vim instead.

In all of these problems:
- Problems are marked with '--->'
- Start your cursor on the 'x'
- Don't use the arrow keys!
- Hint: you may want to use 't' and 'f'!

It was a summer baseball camp that I attended in high school where I was first
formally taught how to slide. How many scabs and a jammed wrist could have been
  --->  On the next line, delete from the 'x' to the '.' (don't delete the '.')
avoidedxif I was taught at a young age how to slide properly. Don't assume
because kids can slide that they know how to slide. That's like assuming a
player can hit because he can swing a bat. The most important slide to teach is
the bent leg slide. The biggest problem with the bent leg slide is that kids
tend to slide on their side. The proper and less painful way to slide is on
your butt. The second problem is that kids often want to put their hands down
as they slide. This can lead to jammed fingers and wrists.

A good way to teach a bent leg slide is to teach it the way you teach many
skills, in steps.

Start by finding out which leg is going to be bent during the bent leg slide.
With the player standing have him stand on one leg and bend the other leg at
the knee, bringing it behind the other leg.  Have the player raise both hands
over his head.  Have the player start to squat, while he keeps his bent leg up,
then sit down. The player will naturally roll back on his back and his feet
will come up in the air. Although this won't happen when he slides, it will
during this stage. When he has rolled back to a seated position, he should
still have their hands up and his front leg should be bent not straight.  Once
comfortable with this, have him take a couple steps and slide (I always
  ---> Change from 'x' to ')' (excluding ')'), replacing with 'in grassy fields'
practice sliding xon grass). Then have them jog and slide and finally run full
speed and slide.  Checkpoints for each step:

Hands should above head not on the ground. Don't worry too much about how high
the hands are. Keeping them above the head is used to avoid the natural
reaction to put them on the ground.  Player should be sliding on his butt, not
side.  Front leg should be bent to allow for give when sliding into the base.
Unless you're stealing second, don't slide head first into second base. The
chances of being stepped on and injured are too great. For younger players, the
head first slide is not recommended for anything other than diving back to
first. A head first slide puts you in a vulnerable position where it is easy to
injure your hands, shoulders, and head. A good bent leg slide straight into the
base is the best and safest way to get to the bag, protect yourself, and break
up a double play.

Go to any youth baseball game and you'll see players who have scrapes all over
their legs from sliding. Player's mistakenly think that a bent leg slide is
performed by sliding on the side of the leg. The proper way is to slide on your
butt. Practice sliding in grass and check the stains on your pants. If they are
on the side of your leg, you're not sliding properly. Another common problem in
sliding is putting your hand down during the slide. This is often the cause of
jammed fingers, wrists, and sometimes shoulders. Get in the habit of sliding
with your hands up. If you can remember to slide on your butt with your hands
  ---> Change from 'x' to '.' (including the '.'), replacing it with just '!'
up, you will be sliding pain freexfrom that point on.
